hi and welcome back to 10 minute movies
where we take cinematic masterpieces and
more often disasters and cut them down
into short digestible videos today we're
taking a look at the third film in the
James Bond franchise Goldfinger
Goldfinger was released in 1964 a year
after From Russia With Love this time
around though the producers opted for a
different director guy Hamilton the film
also features more of an all-star cast
than From Russia With Love
Sean Connery returns as James Bond
supported by the likes of honor Blackman
Shirley Eaton and Gert Froebel as well
as Lois Maxwell Bernard Lee and others
returning as the mi6 stars
the combination of guy Hamilton's new
approach to Bond a talented cast and a
film with nearly double the budget of
his predecessor led to what is widely
considered the greatest Bond film of all
time so without further ado let's get
into the plot
the film starts with a pre credit
sequence this follows agent James Bond
on a mission to destroy a drug
laboratory in Latin America after
infiltrating the plant bond places
plastic explosives on some handily
placed barrels of very inflammable fuel
he detonates these destroying the plant
we then fade into Miami Beach Florida
bondas traveled to America for a holiday
while staying at the Fontainebleau Hotel
Bond meets CIA agent Felix Leiter writer
gives Bond instructions from his
superior M to keep tabs on boolean
dealer auric Goldfinger we are then
introduced to Goldfinger played by Gert
Ferber a German actor who had so much
difficulty with his English lines that
his voice had to be dubbed in a studio
during post-production Goldfinger is
there to meet with mr. Simmons whom he
plays a daily game of gin rummy with
Leiter informs pawn that Goldfinger has
been thrashing Simmons all week bond
therefore deduces the Goldfinger must be
cheating he goes inside to find
Goldfinger's room and there he discovers
Jill Masterton Goldfinger's employee
who's been spying on Simmons discards
through a pair of binoculars and
informing gob finger of his hands
through an earpiece bond uses the radio
to blackmail gob forget into losing the
game
along with all the money he's won
against Simmons during the week bond
takes Jill to his room there they drink
champagne and go to bed together before
bond receives a call from Felix asking
James to meet him the following morning
bond gets out of bed to fetch more
champagne but as he's reaching into the
fridge he's knocked out by an intruder
[Music]
when bond awakens he returns to the
bedroom to find Jill dead her body had
been covered entirely in gold paint
causing her to die from skin
asphyxiation bond returns to London
there he meets with em and the governor
of the Bank of England the governor
explains to bond how gold prices vary
across the world this allows someone to
profit by selling gold bullion
internationally he then explains that
the government has been concerned about
gold smuggling for quite some time
they've managed to identify gold fingers
one such smuggler but they've been
unable to figure out how he smuggles his
gold across borders bonds objective is
to find out how he does it to help in
his mission bond visits q-branch their
qgis bond to tracking devices one large
one and one smaller one that fits into
the heel of bonds shoe he also gives
Bond a modified Aston Martin db5
complete with revolving number plates
and ejector seat and even an early
version of a sat-nav that can be used
along with the tracking device it's in
this movie that cues character really
clicked although he appeared in both dr.
know and From Russia With Love
it was Goldfinger where cue first really
became a beloved character perhaps as
director guy Hamilton advised actor
desmond llewelyn to inject sarcastic
humor into the character and
incidentally we'd appreciate its return
along with all your other equipment
intact for once when you return from the
field the next day at a country club in
Kent Bond meets Goldfinger for a game of
golf we're also introduced to
Goldfinger's manservant and henchman
odd-job who was the one who knocked bond
out at the hotel in Miami
the to play and bond ends up winning the
game afterwards however Goldfinger who's
aware of bonds ulterior motives for
meeting with him Warren Spahn not to
interfere with his affairs he then
reinforces the threat by having odd job
do this as Goldfinger prepares to leave
Bond places the larger tracking device
into the boot of his car allowing one to
follow him using the tracking device
bond follows Goldfinger on a journey
through France and Switzerland on the
way bond is shot up by Tilly Masterson
who's trying to assassinate Goldfinger
this is Jill Masterton sister out for
revenge after the death of her sister
bond follows Goldfinger to his gold
processing plant near Geneva there he
sneaks into the plant under the cover of
darkness and discovers gold fingers
method for smuggling gold
internationally
Goldfinger melts down and then shaped
the gold bars into panels
he then fits these to his rolls-royce
and drives into Europe where he brings
the car to the Geneva plant to melt the
gold panels back into bars whilst their
bond also overhears Goldfinger talking
to Chinese nuclear physicists mr. Ling
about something of importance called
operation Grand Slam on his way out
bond runs into Tilley Masterton again is
trying to kill Goldfinger during this
encounter bond accidentally tripped an
alarm which alerts Goldfinger to their
presence bond and Tilly tried to escape
in the db5 but they're caught up to buy
old job who kills Tilly with his hat
this is actually the first time an Aston
Martin features in the Bond franchise
and interestingly the db5 dubbed the
most famous car in the world saw a sales
increase of 50% following the release of
Goldfinger in 1964 Bond is captured and
tied to a solid-gold table underneath an
industrial laser Goldfinger explains to
him that it can project their spot on
the moon or at closer range cut through
solid metal I will show you the laser
then begins slicing through the table
towards Bob in desperation Bond lies -
Goldfinger telling him the mi6 know all
about operation Grand Slam as a
precaution Goldfinger spares bonds life
so as to mislead mi6 into believing the
bond is still under control bond is
taken to Goldfinger stud farm near
Louisville Kentucky aboard his private
jet the jet is piloted by [ __ ] Galore
played by honor Blackman as they land
bond watches [ __ ] Galore Flying Circus
during training the Flying Circus is an
all-female team of stunt pilots trained
and led by calor although actually in
some of the shots a few pilots were
played by men wearing blonde wigs they
arrive at the stud farm where bond is
taken to a prison cell upon his arrival
bond is also watched by felix leiter
he's tracking him using the shoe tracker
bond manages to escape his cell fairly
quickly
and while snooping around he witnesses
Goldfinger holding a meeting with
several members of the Mafia the Mafia
are there to discuss operation Grand
Slam which their funding Grand Slam is
Goldfinger's planned to rob the gold
bullion depository at Fort Knox
this will largely be done by releasing
poisonous delta-9 nerve gas into the
atmosphere around Fort Knox bond is then
recaptured by [ __ ] and taken to his
cell back in the meeting room
Goldfinger has the Mafia men killed
using the Delta 9
later bond meets with Goldfinger for
drinks there he points out to Goldfinger
that his plan to rob the entire
depository won't work as he won't have
enough time to move the gold before the
American army intervenes Goldfinger them
reveals to bond that he doesn't actually
intend to steal the gold instead mr.
Lane from the Geneva plant has supplied
Goldfinger with a dirty bomb the
Goldfinger will detonate inside the
vault to radiate the gold
this will make America's gold supply
useless for 58 years increasing the
value of Goldfinger zone gold and
allowing the Chinese to profit from the
economic chaos
Goldfinger tells [ __ ] to entertain bond
so the two had inside one of the stables
their bond tries to kiss her but she
throws him on the floor displaying some
impressive judo skills in fact producers
Harry Saltzman and Albert piccoli were
so determined to get on a Blackman for
the part of [ __ ] Galore
that they had the actress's ability to
perform judo written into the script
like this she eventually softens however
and herim bond kiss the next day
operation Grand Slam begins with the
flying circus spraying the delta-9 gas
over Fort Knox this seemingly kills all
of the military and government personnel
nearby including Felix Leiter golf
fingers private army then breaks into
Fort Knox and breaks open the vault
using the laser
coldfinger then arise with the bomb and
it's taken into the vault where a
henchman handcuffs bond to it
unbeknownst a Goldfinger however is that
bond convinced galore to alert the
Americans and replace the gas with a
harmless substance the troops all arise
and attack the depository which kills
many of Goldfinger's men seeing this
Goldfinger locks and seals the vault and
takes off his coat to reveal a u.s. army
Colonels disguise uniform God finger
then kills Ling and several soldiers
before escaping bond
odd-job and the other henchmen become
trapped inside the vault the henchman
tries to stop the bomb out of fear for
his life but odd-job throws him to his
death bond then frees himself from the
handcuffs
but odd-job attacks bond before he can
disarm the bomb
the to fight but eventually bond manages
to electrocute odd-job using ironically
his own steel-rimmed hat then bond
manages to force the lock off the bomb
using gold bullion bars from the vault
however bond is unable to disarm the
complex mechanism luckily after killing
all of Goldfinger's men the american
troops open the vault and an atomic
specialists arrive who's able to turn
off the device
bond is invited to the White House for
lunch with the president for his efforts
he brought to the president's jet and is
taken on his way to Washington however
it turns out that golf winger has
hijacked the plane and about halfway
into the flight he confronts bond
interestingly the scene aboard the plane
was actually meant to be a lot longer
than what was seen here and it was
actually originally going to involve a
henchman but this was cut from the
script you can though see the henchman
briefly as Goldfinger enters the cabin
Goldfinger threatens bond with a
revolver but bond attacks him in a
struggle for the gun a shot is fired
shooting out one of the planes windows
this causes the cabin to rapidly
decompress the difference in pressure
between the cabin and the air outside
causes Goldfinger to be sucked out of
the cabin through the window which kills
him the decompressions also caused the
jet to plummet uncontrollably towards
the ocean bond rescues [ __ ] who was
piloting the plane and they parachute
safely from the aircraft before it
crashes later a search helicopter passes
over bond and galore because he tries to
call for help but bond tells her this is
not time to be rescued the screen fades
to black as he and Col orcas and bond
draws the parachute over them
[Music]
thank you so much for watching 10 minute
movies if you've enjoyed this and would
like to see more videos like it then
please subscribe and I'll see you all
later
[Music]